CHANGES AND HINTS
=================
This file documents the instructions for upgrading to GNOME SlackBuild 3.2 for
Slackware 13.37, and lists any packages which have been added, removed,
renamed, and/or split during the development cycle from GSB 3.0.0 for Slackware
13.37, as well as note some potential "gotchas" that users can avoid by arming
themselves with a little knowledge.

All packages that are built to replace a standard Slackware package are
configured and built as closely as possible to how Patrick does.  For more
information about what needs to be replaced, and why, please see our
'SLACKWARE_REPLACED_PACKAGES.TXT'.  

This version of GNOME SlackBuild has been considerably slimmed down.  It is
difficult to maintain to a high quality so many peripheral packages. A full
GNOME desktop, and a variety of office, multimedia, and networking applications
is still offered.  Please check the 'Package Removals' section below for
details. 

Before installing or upgrading GSB, you are encouraged to use
'--remove-obsolete' when doing upgrades.

GPG SIGNED PACKAGED
===================
All packages are now signed with gpg, and you can find the public key as
./GPG-KEY.  If you are using slapt-get to download and install your packages,
make sure to run:

  $ slapt-get --add-keys

UPDATES ABOUT SLAPT-GET
=============================
With the latest version of slapt-get, be sure to add a ":CUSTOM" tag to the end
of your SOURCE line which points to the GNOME SlackBuild repository.
Otherwise, the official Slackware package will outweigh some GNOME SlackBuild
required package and they may not be installed.  


*** PACKAGE ADDITIONS SINCE 3.2.0 for Slackware 13.37 ***

*** PACKAGE REMOVALS SINCE 3.0.0 for Slackware 13.37 ***

d/gdl.
n/liferea.
m/*.  The mono (m/) set has been removed.  It is just too slow,
clumsy and ugly to keep maintaining.


*** OTHER NOTABLE CHANGES AND HINTS ***

- The required upgrade to libnotify will break some packages, particularly
  xfce-notifyd and system-config-printer.  There may be other packages as well.
You can either remove these package, or if you want to get them working, you
will need grab a libnotify-0.5.2 package from an official Slackware FTP site,
and explodepkg.  Then copy the usr/lib*/libnotify.so.* into your /usr/lib.  We
have provided a libnotify-solibs package in extra/ which has simply repackaged
the official Slackware libnotify libraries.

- "Suspend" now shows up by default in the user status menu; however, "Power
  Off" is hidden and only shows up while holding down the Alt key.  If you're
looking for the "Hibernate", "Suspend" and "Power Off", you'll need to install
the gnome-shell-extensions package from a/ to enable the alterateMenu
extension.

- By default, GNOME Shell does not have the minimize and maximize buttons
  enabled in the window title bars.  To maximise, you must drag a window to the
top of the screen to maximize it. More problematically, there are no close
button in the titlebar for the windows that have a "Close" button in the
dialog.  If you wish to re-enable your window titlebar buttons:

 $ gconftool-2 -s -t string /desktop/gnome/shell/windows/button_layout \
      ":minimize,maximize,close"

- Remember to fix your config files.  Some of the config files in /etc are
  going to need your attention.  You'll find the new incoming config files on
your system with the ".new" extension.  You may need to fill these in with
information from your old config files and then move them over.
