
GNOME SlackBuild 2.26.3 for Slackwarew 13.0 Upgrade to 
  GNOME SlackBuild 2.28.0 for 13.0 <steve@gnomeslackbuild.org>

This document explains how to upgrade from earlier versions of GNOME
Slackbuild to GNOME SlackBuild 2.28.0 for Slackware 13.0.

----------------------------------------------------------------------------

For details of important changes from GNOME SlackBuild 2.26.3 for Slackware
13.0, see the file 'CHANGES_AND_HINTS.TXT'. 

Before you begin, I would strongly recommend making a backup of your system,
or, if not the entire system, at least the /etc directory.  You might find that
you need to refer to a few things after the upgrade process is complete. Back
it up, or take your chances.

You will first need to upgrade to Slackware 13.0.  For the detailed
instructions regarding this, please see Pat's own UPGRADE.TXT.  Follow the
directions there first and upgrade your system fully to Slackware 13.0.  Once
you have done that, then:


0.  Put your machine in single-user mode:
    telinit 1

    This is not strictly required, however, more things can go wrong in
multiuser, and some major libraries are upgrades and replaced (like glib2 and
gtk+2), so it's better if applications which use these libraries aren't
running.  

1.  Update slapt-get

    The default method of upgrade is through slapt-get which can easily resolve
dependencies.  If you are unable to access the internet when upgrading, it is
still possible to use slapt-get.  You will need to grab a full copy of the gsb
or gsb64 directory from a mirror.  You can then point your SOURCE= line in the
slapt-get file to file:///path/gsb, and rerun:
   
    $ slapt-get --update
 
This will then use a local copy in place of a remote mirror.  If you wish to
use a remote mirror when upgrading, make sure that you can use networking even
in single user mode.  Before upgrading, be sure to have updated slapt-get using
the above command.


2.  Upgrade your required replacements.  These are found in:
   SLACKWARE-13.0_REPLACED_PACKAGES.TXT.  It is recommended that your read this
file to find out why certain standard Slackware packages need to be replaced. 

    $ removepkg bluez-libs bluez-utils
    $ slapt-get --install alsa-lib glib2 gtk+2 libwnck


3.  Upgrade your previous GNOME SlackBuild installation:

    $ slapt-get --upgrade

slapt-get will upgrade all of your installed packages, and install any new
packages required as dependencies.


4.  Remove obsolete packages.  The CHANGES_AND_HINTS.TXT file should have a
    list of these.  You may also wish to go into /var/log/packages and take
    a look at the package list:

    ls -lt | less

    You may spot some old, obsolete, or discontinued packages.  If so,
    you can remove these using 'removepkg'.


5.  Fix your config files.  Some of the config files in /etc are going to 
    need your attention.  You'll find the new incoming config files on 
    your system with the ".new" extension.  You may need to fill these in 
    with information from your old config files and then move them over.

    This is important as some dbus, udev, and rc scripts are modified.  

6.  If you use a non-en_US language pack for Openoffice and you already have it
    installed, then you may upgrade it by moving into the gsb/ooo
    directory and using this command:

    upgradepkg --install-new openoffice3-l10n*<your locale>*txz

    To have upgradepkg cycle through all of the available packages, and
    see which ones need to be upgraded, use this in gsb/ooo:

    upgradepkg *txz

8.  Return to multi-user mode:
    telinit 3


9.  Reboot to start using the any new services you may have installed, such as
    Avahi, Bluez, or NetworkManager.  


At this point you should be running GNOME SlackBuild 2.28.0 for Slackware 13.0.

---

The GNOME Slackbuild Team
